it's the dawn of the new millennium in
Ethiopia an athlete Haile Gebrselassie
is at home celebrating with his family
new year is a very special that all the
day here in Ethiopia and it's dance and
everybody know dancing that's so
wonderful you know everything is
tradition my shoe crowd and just the way
how I put this you know just it's a kind
of more than I mean it's modern style
the comfort to which Haile is now
accustomed is a long way from life as he
knew it growing up his first steps were
taken many hours down the road in a
small rural town called a cellar yeah I
like highly has built a school in a
cellar in efforts to advance education
in Ethiopia we opened with by the name
of my mom because then I just she before
she died she was annoyed just that I won
you know just to push all kids to school
visits to a cellar take highly sharply
back to the childhood that saw the odds
of success stacked against what I was
born is almost you know this area what
you see you know those two towers down
when I was getting a countryside
and like their edge just I think they
can be you know my double specially
difficult but they know the difference
he had the shoes I had no shoes he can
be no Haile Gebrselassie anytime let's
go
these kids maybe they can be no just
very good outlet they have a natural
gift from this hard life there are not
it not our main house was like this big
and the kitchen where we cook like that
let me show you not just the house the
whole family how they live
I used to sleep you know like this
you know whether we put in all the
clothes but there in the evening you
know just we have a fire somewhere here
and just we sit together and clothing my
father and mother who were 12 means
enough five brothers and four sisters
live together
it's normal it's a countryside don't
expect the leg you're alive no light
before I used to live like that
it was not that difficult women who are
fine who are so happy who are happy
family cause now if you ask me back and
live like that way this is impossible it
was highly his daily journey to school
that first set him in motion I used to
do ten kilometres to school and then
back home and for 10 years imagine
that's why I'm a good runner at the
moment we had the notice there our book
with the left side to delight that
that's why you know use my right hand
it's all I mean very active and still
today hi Lee's carriage bears the mark
of that journey a hook to his arm where
his school books would sit this was
chronicled in the biopic of his life
highly
his father who used to tell him why
don't you take some profession like
teacher like lawyer he told me no you
stop running and I mean do your walk and
be like the others for me being like the
others means and it just be like one of
our legend when I told him you know let
me be like them come on stop it
my first big moment was in 1987 and when
I run the school when I won that 1500
meters really I had no confidence after
that just oh that's a big chance I am
the one you know just to do things
easily
once he started there was no stopping
him races came along hard and fast and
the victories flooded in alongside it
was hi Lisa limpid gold medal in 1996
that catapulted the young runner into
the international spotlight
my dream was to become Olympic champion
the dream came true after 16 years
giving it
but why I was crying that wasn't all
special moment for me that what I was
dreaming for many years as the nation
reveled in his achievement highly
celebrated with the decision to marry
Allen just I promised her I will make
when I want to know a God in Atlanta and
she asked me if not we don't married
each other no no no no I don't say like
that but you know I will marry you no
just something special and we lucky
really know but it's thanks to God you
know just I wonder three and four years
later i li did it again one of the best
races I've ever seen on the track was
the 10,000 meter final in Sydney when a
highly and Porter gap slugged it out toe
to toe stride for stride down the
finishing straight
this was a spectacular race
and back to addis ababa was unbelievable
the receptionist remembers pain is
intense intensive of Ethiopian suet some
of them actually came from the regions
literally from the airport to the
stadium though people lined up it's
almost like a head of state coming in
the president later made one of the
city's streets a tribute to its national
hero it is almost impossible to explain
to anybody that's not witnessed it how
he is viewed in Ethiopia and even today
Haile is reminded of that very status he
opens the newspaper to discover that he
has been named sportsman of the
millennium I am annoyed just in two
category
I am number one in the sport and I'm
certain business stealing home now try
to do more it's amazing
i'li continues to draw great excitement
from the victories that have brought him
such a claim
but he won't be satisfied until he beats
the marathon record quiet give something
you know beginning go for the new
millennium will be wonderful
and with just two weeks until the Berlin
Marathon the clock is running coming up
Haile lands in Berlin and waits for his
shot at the ultimate title